OK in this video we're going to have a quick tour of Visual Studio and build a very simple C-Sharp application
.
So here I've got a visual studio open.
Let's go to a file new project.
OK and this dialog on the left side we've got a section called templates and here you see the kind of
applications we can build with C-sharp.
So as you see in the list we can build desktop applications web applications apps for cloud more biol
services workflows and various kind of things.
But in this course and the subsequent parts of this course we're just going to focus on console applications
a console application is a very simple application that does not have a graphical user interface and
it's a great learning tool for learning a new language.
So we're not going to be distracted by various complexities of larger applications.
So on the left side select Windows and on the right side select console application then give a name
to the project.
So let's call it hello world which is a common tradition when learning a new language and specify a
location.
We can put it wherever you want.
I know this concept of solution in visual studio we have this concept of solution which can have one
or more projects with a very simple application.
You have only one solution and one project but as your application grows you add more projects each
responsible for something different.
No we don't have to worry about it now click OK.
All right let's see what's happening here.
Some developers get a little bit intimidated the first time they open Visual Studio and that's fair
enough because there are so many menus and panels here that it's a bit confusing.
But let me tell you something.
Ninety percent of the time you're going to use only 10 percent of these or even less.
So don't worry about all these menus here.
You don't need to use all of them at all times.
Ninety percent of the time.
All you need is the code editor here and sometimes you need the solution explorer.
In fact I personally hardly ever use solution explorer because I do everything with my keyboard.
And if you watch my course double your coding speed you will see that everything is possible with keyboard
.
So you don't need these panels here.
You don't need to grab your mouse and navigate around.
You don't really need the stuff.
Also none of the stuff on the toolbar are ever required.
Don't worry about it.
Everything you can do with your keyboard.
All right.
Now let's take a look at this first our program so we created a console application and on the right
side you see the solution explorer panel in case you don't see that go to view and select solution explorer
.
So the talk you see we have a solution which has only one project I know that we've got the project
called Hello world.
Look at this four items here.
Properties expand that we have a file here called assembly info.
This is the identification for the assembly that will be produced as a result of compiling this application
.
So when we compile a console application we're going to get an executable.
And that's an assembly that assembly has an identification.
Look at these attributes here.
Like the title description which is currently not set.
Company product copyright trademark culture a great you know various kind of things like even version
.
So these are all part of assembly identification or assembly manifest in most cases you don't have to
worry about it but if you want to create an assembly and you want to distribute it send to other people
.
Then you may want to come here and give it a proper name and a proper version.
So for now we don't have to worry about it under references references you see any assemblies that this
project is referencing to do its job.
When you create a project with visual studio by default it as a reference to a bunch of assemblies that
you see here these are all part of Dot Net framework.
So at a minimum Visual Studio assumes you're going to use classes in system assembly or system that
data to work with databases and so on.
You may not necessarily use all these assemblers in your project but that's just part of the template
.
After the config is an X amount where we store the conflagration for this application.
Sometimes you may want to store connection strings through the database or you may want to have some
settings about your application.
All of them will end up here.
And finally you see program the C-s which is where we're going to start writing code.
All right let's see what's happening here.
So in this file program that's yes on the top you see a bunch of using statements.
What is this all about.
Well our project is called the hello world.
So by default visual studio creates a namespace called Hello world when you write code in this namespace
we have access to any classes defined in this namespace.
So if we want to use a class that is defined in a different namespace we need to import it in our code
file.
And that's why we use the using statement.
So by default Visual Studio as it's five using statements system is a namespace a Dot Net Framework
and that's where we have all these basic utility classes and primitive types typewriter system that
collections that generic is used to work with lists collections and so on system that link is used to
work with data.
And it's a comprehensive topic that I have covered in my C-Sharp And of course system the text is used
to work with text and coding and stuff like that.
And finally system the threading is used to build multithreaded applications in this video we're going
to create a very simple application and we're not going to use any of these four name spaces here so
we're just going to use system for now.
I leave them there and then I'll show you how to clean them up.
All right so here's our namespace and inside them space.
By default we have a class called program so every console application you create with Visual Studio
has a class called program Inside program by default.
We have a method or a function called Main and that's the entry point to the application.
So when you run your application C-L or executes the code inside main method and that's where everything
kicks off this method is declared as static.
And that's something I'm going to cover later in the next section.
Methods have input and output.
So what goes inside parentheses the input to the method which we call parameter or argument.
Know that parameters are optional.
But in this case the default template the main method has a parameter called args which is of type String
Array.
We're going to learn about String Array in the next section.
What do you see before the method name is the return type or the output of the method void in C Sharp
means nothing.
That means this method does not return any value.
It just contains some code that's it.
Also note that C sharp is a case sensitive language so this main has to be with capital M otherwise
C-L R is not going to find this method as the entry point of the application.
Okay and one last thing is not this curly braces so we're half a block of code.
We need to surround it with curly braces so that is applicable for methods for classes and for name
spaces.
Right now most write a very simple program.
So let's go here.
We have a class called Konsole which is used to read data from console or write data to it.
It has a bunch of methods we can access this Smethurst using the dot notation.
And here you see various members of this class.
Methods are indicated by a purple cube.
So beep is used to play a beep sound.
All clear is used to clear the console.
We get to use the right line method.
This method can optionally take a parameter.
So I'm going to pass a string here.
Hello world.
Just that I know that statements in C# terminate with a semicolon as you see here.
Now take a look at using system on the top.
Do you see that it's highlighted where as the others are greyed out.
The reason for that is in this file we are using a class called Konsole which is defined in the system
namespace.
That's why that using statement is active.
We are not using any classes defined in other names spaces and that's why they're great out so we can
get rid of them to make our code cleaner.
We can delete each one by control X like that.
Or if you're using resharpen we can't get rid of all of them by pressing alt and enter here and selecting
the first option which is remove unused directives in file so it's faster.
Now let's run the application with control and F5.
So this we know that you see here this black window is what we call console and that's why this kind
of project is called console application.
OK that's it for this lecture.
From this point in every lecture we are going to learn something new about C-Sharp and we can write
more interesting more complex programs.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and thank you for watching